Featured
Caroline's Dice Portrait
2008-11-16
Recently, I have been learning about the fundamentals of computer graphics.  The reason behind this effort is that I feel one of the most important skills that a scientist can possess is the ability to communicate complex ideas through illustration.  To this end, I have focused on learning two complementary pieces of technology
portrait-thumb.png

Recently, I have been learning about the fundamentals of computer graphics.  The reason behind this effort is that I feel one of the most important skills that a scientist can possess is the ability to communicate complex ideas through illustration.  To this end, I have focused on learning two complementary pieces of technology: [Processing](http://processing.org).

I find that the best way to learn about something new is to dive in with a project that I find interesting.  So, I decided to visualize what it would look like if I were to make a mosaic of Caroline using gaming dice.

### Project description

The goal of this project is to automatically convert an unaltered image to an image that is composed of black dice with white pips. A good starting place for our discussion is the composite image below. You can click on it to retrieve the full sized image.



The method for producing the final visualization is essentially a special case of vector quantization. First, the original image is downscaled to a six step gray palette. Then each of the six shades of gray are assigned to a dice value: 1 corresponds to black while a value of 6 represents white. The source code for accomplishing this is given at the end of this post.

### Physical Construction

Having produced what appears to be a viable representation I decided that actually building this would make a pretty unique Christmas gift.  I found a place online that sells dice by the pound and ordered 3000 of them.  I decided to go with 16 mm dice.  The dimensions of the finished portrait are, 64 x 102.4 cm or in dice units, 40 x 64 dice, for a total of 2560 dice.  Note that the ratio of height/width is 1.6 by construction, or approximately equal to the. I have included some photos below of the construction process.

